# How the Web Works

When a computer seeks to access a particular webpage, it engages in a sort of “conversation” with other computers connected to the Internet, the global computer network. The client computer launches a browser program to request the page. 
A browser is a software application that allows computers find and display resources from the World Wide Web, the global collection of digital information (text, images, videos, etc.).  Common browsers include Google Chrome, Safari, Mozilla Firefox, and Microsoft Edge, which recently replaced Internet Explorer. 
Using the browser, the client sends a request to the server computer in the language of HyperText Transfer Protocol, abbreviated to HTTP. The request includes a multitude of information, including the date and time. It also tells the server what browser and operating system the client computer is running, as well as the type of characters it can process. In response, in addition to the actual requested content, the server sends data on the file, such as how many bytes it is in size. The reply begins with an HTTP status code.
When the server acquiesces, it sends the content in the form of HyperText Markup Language, or HTML, another universal computer language, which structures the text using a series of tags so that the client computer can display it properly. Some HTML tags, such as header and body, denote the hierarchy of information on the page. Others control the styling of the text, like boldness and italicization. 
Clients can send HTTP requests to servers using Universal Reference Locators, commonly called URLs. Each URL contains the same fundamental elements, such as the host computer’s domain name, the file name, and tags denoting usage of the HTTP and HTML languages. URLs thus illustrate not only the webpage’s location but also how the client computer can process it for optimal viewing.
Thus, the process of accessing a webpage engages systems such as the Internet and the World Wide Web, requires an operating system and a browser, and uses the languages of HTTP and HTML. It is more complicated than today’s streamlined search bar interfaces suggest.
